Include a new SecurityScheme for external authentication (#5193)
pulp/pulpcore: staging_docs/admin/guides/authentication/05-json_header.md

official site [here](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/).

Remember that the content of the header must be Base64 encoded.

> ## Enabling the ThirdParty Authentication Schema

Reviewer: Obviously this is the place where my comments should go.
I don't think we are supposed to write rst docs anymore.

Author: I think we will stop when the moving is done.

official site [here](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/).

Remember that the content of the header must be Base64 encoded.

## Enabling the ThirdParty Authentication Schema

In a case where Pulp is deployed behind an API Gateway, it may be necessary to indicate to the clients where and which authorization process to use.
For this scenario, you may be able to provide an OpenAPI security schema to be used by clients or Pulp-CLI itself.

To enable that, you have to configure the `AUTHENTICATION_JSON_HEADER_OPENAPI_SECURITY_SCHEME` setting with a payload following the
[Security Scheme Object definition](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest.html#security-scheme-object). Here is an example describing
an OAuth2 and a HTTP Basic authentication system:

> === HTTP Basic Authentication

Reviewer: You could have taken the api_key or the JWT bearer example. But it's unclear to me how basic auth could be setup as external authentication.

Author: The API Gateway could require any authentication mechanism to protect the desired endpoint. Even HTTP Basic Auth.
But I will add another method here to make things clear.

Reviewer: So the api gateway is transparently translating the basic auth header into the json header with the username? OK.
But if the user needs to talk to another server to obtain a token, that is called 'token bearer'.

Author: If that token is obtained using `oauth2` or `openidconnect` this will not be an issue. It's part of the spec.
Using other methods require that the service being accessed be the issuer of the credential itself. Basic Auth as ex.

official site [here](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/).

Remember that the content of the header must be Base64 encoded.

## Enabling the ThirdParty Authentication Schema

> In a case where Pulp is deployed behind an API Gateway, it may be necessary to indicate to the clients where and which authorization process to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a case where Pulp is deployed behind an API Gateway, it may be necessary to indicate to the clients which authorization process to use.
```

official site [here](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/).

Remember that the content of the header must be Base64 encoded.

## Enabling the ThirdParty Authentication Schema

> In a case where Pulp is deployed behind an API Gateway which could require a specific authentication schema, it may be necessary to 
> indicate to the clients which authorization process to use. For this scenario, you may be able to provide an 
> OpenAPI security schema describing it to be used by clients or Pulp-CLI itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a case where Pulp is deployed behind an API Gateway which could require a specific authentication schema, it may be necessary to indicate to the clients which authorization process to use.
For this scenario, you may be able to provide an OpenAPI security schema describing it to be interpreted by clients.
```

Reviewer: Suggestion was: "clients." Don't mention a specific one.

> To enable that, you have to configure the `AUTHENTICATION_JSON_HEADER_OPENAPI_SECURITY_SCHEME` setting with a payload following the
> [Security Scheme Object definition](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest.html#security-scheme-object). Here is an example describing
> an OAuth2 and a HTTP Basic authentication system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable that, you have to configure the `AUTHENTICATION_JSON_HEADER_OPENAPI_SECURITY_SCHEME` setting with a payload following the [Security Scheme Object definition](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/latest.html#security-scheme-object).
Here are some examples describing a HTTP basic auth, a simple bearer server and an OAuth2 authentication scheme:
```

Reviewer: I don't see this resolved.
My suggestion was to add the bearer scenario to the description, because we have the example below.

Reviewer: Maybe you resolved, but did forget to push?
